Performed dataset validation (#162)
centre-for-humanities-computing/danish-foundation-models: docs/intercoder_reliability.md

# Results from corpus tagging

> Each user tagged 100 documents (unless otherwise specified). Each document were tagged
> on a per "sentence" basis. A "sentence" is defined by a newline split. "sentences", longer
> that 1000 characters were split into multiple sentences of 1000 characters or less.
> This tagging scheme similar to 
> ([Kreutzer et al., 2022](https://direct.mit.edu/tacl/article/doi/10.1162/tacl_a_00447/109285/Quality-at-a-Glance-An-Audit-of-Web-Crawled)).
> Each tag where put into one of the following categories:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each user tagged 100 documents unless otherwise specified. Documents were split by newlines into text-blocks, block was rated. 

Text-blocks longer than 1000 characters were split into multiple blocks of 1000 characters or less.

This tagging scheme is similar to 
([Kreutzer et al., 2022](https://direct.mit.edu/tacl/article/doi/10.1162/tacl_a_00447/109285/Quality-at-a-Glance-An-Audit-of-Web-Crawled)).

Each block was put into one of the following categories:
```

    

- `wrong_language`: Not Danish

- `skipped`: Unsure of category

> - `correct_language`: Danish text where at least 80\% of the text is reasonable sentences.
> 
> - `not_language`: Text where less than 80\% of the text is reasonable sentences. Takes priority over wrong_language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `correct_language`: Danish text where at least 80\% of the text is reasonable.

- `not_language`: Text where less than 80\% of the text is reasonable. Takes priority over `wrong_language`.
```

> Additionally, each sentence was marked as being pornographic and/or offensive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, each block was tagged for pornography (yes/no) and offensiveness (yes/no).
```

    

## Text proportions

----

> **kenneth** (Session: test)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Kenneth** (Session: test)
```

- *Date: 2022-09-05*
- *Sentences tagged: 102*
- *Documents tagged: na*

Proportions:

- 69.16% of characters is `correct_language`
- 25.66% of characters is `not_language`
- 2.74% of characters is `skipped`
- 2.45% of characters is `wrong_language`
- 0.00% of characters is porn
- 0.00% of characters is offensive

> **kenneth** (Session: 1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Kenneth** (Session: 1)
```

- *Date: 2022-09-06*
- *Sentences tagged: 292*
- *Documents tagged: 100*

Proportions:

- 68.03% of characters is `correct_language`
- 29.19% of characters is `not_language`
- 2.10% of characters is `skipped`
- 0.68% of characters is `wrong_language`
- 0.00% of characters is porn
- 1.38% of characters is offensive

> **lasse** (Session: 1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Lasse** (Session: 1)
```

- *Date: 2022-09-07*
- *Sentences tagged: 336*
- *Documents tagged: 100*

Proportions:

- 68.02% of characters is `correct_language`
- 30.97% of characters is `not_language`
- 1.01% of characters is `wrong_language`
- 0.26% of characters is porn
- 0.00% of characters is offensive

## Intercoder Reliability

----

**kenneth** (Session: test) vs **kenneth** - (Session: 1)

- Cohen's Kappa (all categories): 0.8242 (Overlap in sentences: 98)

- Cohen's Kappa (correct vs not): 0.9075 (Overlap in sentences: 98)

**kenneth** (Session: test) vs **lasse** - (Session: 1)

- Cohen's Kappa (all categories): 0.8140 (Overlap in sentences: 95)

> - Cohen's Kappa (correct vs not): 0.8389 (Overlap in sentences: 95)

Reviewer: Is "not" `not_language` or any category that's not `correct_language`?

**kenneth** (Session: 1) vs **lasse** - (Session: 1)

- Cohen's Kappa (all categories): 0.6767 (Overlap in sentences: 245)

> - Cohen's Kappa (correct vs not): 0.7259 (Overlap in sentences: 245)

Reviewer: As above

## Comparison with mC4

-----

> *Note*: mC4 did have a high degree of repititious texts. Similarly it did when texts blocks where not language they were often something like:

Reviewer: Kenneth... Kunne være du lige skulle skimme sætninger som det her selv ;-)
